John Incantalupo
Week of 2/20 Summary

A little while back, I create a new variable in the testing dataset that provided a normalized test score for each state relative to that year's average test results. I had just begun to create linear regression models for normalized test scores to see if it had any correlation with the other variables when I noticed that the scatterplots of the normalized test scores was nearly identical to the scatterplots of the regular test scores. I found that for the entire merged dataset, the normalized test scores had a 0.9984473 correlation coefficient with the regular test scores. This tells us that overall, the states that were the worst at testing remained the worst over the years and vice versa. It also told me that the normalized variables won't add anything important to the project, so I will be leaving them off.

Since the time series analysis of both actual spending per pupil and total test scores were not working, I decided to plot the two variables against each other. Increased spending should theoretically lead to higher test scores, regardless of year, so finding the correlation of these points grouped by each state may be useful. I proceeded to do that, and the faceted scatterplots displayed how relatively consistent each state was with both their spending and test scores (with the exception of Idaho). I then calculated the correlation coefficient for each state, and found that these ranged from strong positive correlations to strong negative correlations. We should be expecting positive correlations, so it is the negative correlations that interest me the most. I also calculated each state's variance of both actual spending and test scores, and found no correlation between the two (0.0632282 coefficient).

This upcoming week, I plan to analyze the 5 states with the strongest positive correlations between actual spending and the 5 states with the strongest negative correlations, and figure out any similarities between these states.